**Objective**

Detection of Highly Presented Codons (HPC) across all the human proteome.

**Run file** `run_cluster_detection.sh`

**Input Files** `'gene'_'transcript'.tsv.gz`

The input for this code consists of .tsv files. There is one file for each gene in the proteome, meaning the input will be a total of **19,205 .tsv files**.

**Output File** `cluster_detection.tsv.gz`

One single file with all the genes. There is a row for each cluster length for each gene. It means taht it can be more than one row per gene.

`Chromosome: ` Chormosome

`Gene: ` Gene name extracted from the input file name.

`Transcript: ` Transcript name extracted from the input file name.

`Gene_Length: ` Gene length in aa (number of rows of the file).

`Num_Clusters: ` Number of clusters for an specific cluster length in the gene.

`Length_Clusters: ` Number of consecutive HPC.

`Codon_coordinates: ` Coordinates of the cluster (codon index of the fisrt and the last HPC that constitutes the cluster).

`Peptides: ` The total number of presented peptides generated by the codons included in the cluster, calculated as the sum of the 'Peptides' column from all rows included in the cluster.

`Fraction_mean` Mean value of the 'Fraction_u_pnmers_002' column for each cluster.

`Fraction_std` standard deviation of the 'Fraction_u_pnmers_002' column for each cluster.

**Code Structure**
1. Packages
- os
- glob
- argparse
- pandas (pd)
2. Functions definition
- HPC_clusters
- caclulate_metrics
- process_directory (it apply HPC_clusters and calculate metrics functions)
3. List of chr to process
4. Empty list to store results for all chr (all_chromosomes_results)
5. Process each chr directory (process_directory function)
6. Concatenate results (stored in all_chromosomes_results)
7. Save the Dataframe as TSV file

**Functions explanation**
